

CITP Portfolio Project Source data
Complex IT Systems – Practice
September 19, 2025
The data provided for the CITP project portfolio includes a subset of the Internet Movie
Database IMDb’s publicly available dataset, a supplementary dataset collected from
the Open Movie Database OMDb, as well as a preliminary inverted word index covering
these data.  Find description and instructions on how to access and load the data into
your own database below.
The IMDb dataset
The IMDB dataset is available in the fileimdb.backup
1
that you can find on Moodle.
It is a subset with around 160000 of the movies in IMDb ́s publicly available dataset
2
.
To create a database on your local PostgreSQL database server and load the data into
that  new  database,  you  can  simply  issue  the  following  two  psql  commands  in  your
computers command line interface (assuming that your current directory is where the
file is located)
3
:
psql -U postgres -c "create database imdb"
psql -U postgres -d imdb -f imdb.backup
The result of loading theimdb.backupdata in this way will be a new database, called
imdbwith the 7 tables shown in figure 1.  The schema / table structure corresponds
closely to the 7 tsv-files (tab-separated-values files) in IMDb’s dataset. Observe that a
movie (and an episode in a series) is in IMDb’s terminology called a title.  To prepare,
we created a database with 7 tables, loaded data from the 7 tsv-files into these, reduced
the content to cover around 160.000 titles and dumped the reduced database to the
fileimdb.backup.  The content of the reduced dataset is fine for our purposes and is
easier to work with than the full dataset.  A database that just adopts the structure of
the 7 files as relational database schema is not in good shape.  It calls for a thorough
redesign. During the reduction of the data, we started with the title_basics and aimed
at reducing the other tables correspondingly,  so that for instance all titles included
in title_ratings are also included in title_basics.  However, during this process we did
1
A database backup file (dump), that can be used as input with psql to create a copy of the database, just
as an sql file
2
https://datasets.imdbws.com
3
If you alternatively (or in combination) prefer to use the remote server on cit.ruc.dk, you can use the
following commandpsql -h cit.ruc.dk -p 5432 -U citXX -W -f imdb.backup(replace citXX with your group
cit01, cit02, cit03 . . . ).  On cit.ruc.dk you don’t have privilege to create databases, so you must use your
default database, citXX.
1

not change any column values.  So, a second problem is:  some columns may contain
inconsistent data due to dangling references. You can consider to update your database
to remove these.
Figure 1: Schemas for the 7 IMDb dataset tables included in imdb.backup
IMDb source table columns
The description of the table columns below is a slightly modified version of the descrip-
tion of the tsv-files at the IMDb download page
4
.
title_akas ("also known as" for titles)
•  titleId (string) – a tconst, an alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  ordering (integer) – a number to uniquely identify rows for a given titleId
•  title (string) – the localized title
•  region (string) – the region for this version of the title
•  language (string) – the language of the title
•  types (strings) – Enumerated set of attributes for this alternative title.  One or
more of the following:  "alternative",  "dvd",  "festival",  "tv",  "video",  "working",
"original", "imdbDisplay".
•  attributes (strings) – Additional terms to describe this alternative title, not enu-
merated
•  isOriginalTitle (boolean)
4
https://developer.imdb.com/non-commercial-datasets/
2

title_basics (Basic information about titles)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  titleType (string) – the type/format of the title (e.g. movie, short, tvseries, tvepisode,
video, etc)
•  primaryTitle (string) – the more popular title / the title used by the filmmakers on
promotional materials at the point of release
•  originalTitle (string) – original title, in the original language
•  isAdult (boolean) – 0: non-adult title; 1: adult title
•  startYear (YYYY) – represents the release year of a title. In the case of TV Series,
it is the series start year
•  endYear (YYYY) – TV Series end year. Only specified for TV Series title types
•  runtimeMinutes (integer) – primary runtime of the title, in minutes
•  genres (strings) – includes up to three genres associated with the title
title_crew (Director and writer information for all the titles in IMDb)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  directors (strings / nconsts) – director(s) of the given title
•  writers (strings / nconsts) – writer(s) of the given title
title_episode (TV episode information)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric identifier of episode
•  parentTconst (string) – alphanumeric identifier of the parent TV Series
•  seasonNumber (integer) – season number the episode belongs to
•  episodeNumber (integer) – episode number of the tconst in the TV series
title_principals (Casting/crew relating titles and names)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  ordering (integer) – a number to uniquely identify rows for a given titleId
•  nconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the name/person
•  category (string) – the category of the job that the person was in
•  job (string) – the specific job title if applicable
•  characters (string) – the name of the character played if applicable
title_ratings (IMDb rating and votes information for titles)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  averageRating – weighted average of all the individual user ratings
•  numVotes – number of votes the title has received
name_basics (Basic info about titles)
•  nconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the name/person
•  primaryName (string) – name by which the person is most often credited
•  birthYear – in YYYY format
3

•  deathYear – in YYYY format if applicable
•  primaryProfession (strings) – the top-3 professions of the person
•  knownForTitles (strings/tconsts) – titles the person is known for
The OMDb dataset
IMDb does not include all their data in the public dataset, but some of what they don’t
disclose can be found elsewhere.  We will use supplementary data downloaded from
the OMDb API
5
. This data is partly overlapping with what can be found in the IMDb
dataset, but some useful unique additions are included. To simplify the inclusion of the
OMDb data in your relational database, the data has been transformed and made avail-
able as a single tableomdb_datathat can be imported (see figure 2).  When building
your own database, you can select and include columns of your own preference from
this table.  Only two are required:  poster and plot providing respectively a link to the
main poster for the movie and a detailed description of the plot for the title.Observe:
Don’t just make a table in your database that you callomdb_data.  Consider identify-
ing a suitable modification to your database schema to incorporate the additional data
from OMDb.
Figure 2: The source tables available in omdb_data.backup and wi.backup
omdb_data (supplementary data from OMD)
•  poster - link to the main poster
•  plot – a detailed description of the plot for the title
•  . . .  and many more.
5
http://www.omdbapi.com
4

The  data  is  provided  as  a  PostgreSQL  database  backup  fileomdb
_
data.backupand
theomdb_datatable will be imported into your imdb database when you issue the
command :psql -U postgres -d imdb -f omdb
_
data.backup
Notice that tconst is a column intitle_basicsas well as inomdb_data, so you can use
this to combine the data.  Many titles intitle_basicsdon’t have a corresponding row
inomdb_data(data for these titles is not available in OMDb).
An inverted word index for textual data
To  support  selected  queries  on  textual  data  a  so-called  inverted  index  is  provided.
The inverted index is a word index that can be used to lookup a word and retrieve
the documents (typically movies) that this word appears in.  The word index data is
provided  in  a  single  tablewishown  in  figure  2  and  described  below.   The  indexed
columns are primarytitle, plot, characters and primaryname (indicated with the letters
’t’, ’p’, ’c’ and ’n’ respectively. wi – inverted word index on columns primarytitle, plot,
characters and primaryname
wi (word index)
•  tconst (string) – alphanumeric unique identifier of the title
•  word – the word
•  field  –  the  column  where  the  word  occurs,  values  are  ’t’,  ’p’,  ’c’  and  ’n’  that
indicates primarytitle, plot, characters and primaryname respectively
•  lexeme – a lexeme derived for the word. Will be null for fields ’c’ and ’n’.
Most important in this table are the columns tconst and word and it’s fine just to use
these. The field column can be used if you need to be selective regarding what columns
to match when using the inverted index. Maybe you want to remove all the ’c’ and ’n’
words because you find them disturbing. You could also consider replacing them with
"words" that are full primarynames / full character names. The lexeme column can be
used to provide a search where different forms of words (inflexions) are harmonized
by the use of a separate lexeme index.  A lexeme is a string, just like a word, but it
provides a kind of normalized form, where different inflexion forms, such as aim, aime,
aimed, aiming and aims, normalize to a single lexeme, like aim. To import thewitable
into your own imdb database,  download the filewi.backupand run the command :
psql -U postgres -d imdb -f wi.backup
5